(GH-2615) Add BoltSpec documentation (#2649)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/testing_plans.md

# Testing plans

Bolt ships with a library of helpers, named `BoltSpec`, intended to be used for
writing unit tests for plans with the `RSpec` testing tool. Before writing unit
tests for plans, get familiar with [RSpec](https://rspec.info/).

> ## Set up the test environment

Author: Hm, good question... I'm not sure what the best approach is since I don't think we should imply plans can only be tested in modules. Technically you can add simplified `Gemfile`, `Rakefile`, and `spec_helper.rb` files to your project manually, and then the tests will work normally. You should also be able to convert your project to a module to get those files from PDK, though you'd get a ton of extraneous files with them.

Maybe two subsections: "Testing plans in a module" and "Testing plans in a project"?

> ## Set up the test environment

Reviewer: Yeah, I think 2 sections makes sense

saved to.

By convention, tests for a plan are saved to a file with the name `<PLAN
NAME>_spec.rb` in the module's `spec/plans` directory.

```shell
my_module/
├── Gemfile
├── metadata.json
├── plans/
│   └── my_plan.pp
├── Rakefile
└── spec/
    ├── plans/
    │   └── my_plan_spec.rb
    └── spec_helper.rb
```

## Include BoltSpec functions

To use the `BoltSpec` library functions, you need to include them in either the
`spec_helper.rb` file or in the individual test files. You also need to
configure Puppet and Bolt for the testing environment.

### Include BoltSpec in spec_helper.rb

To expose the `BoltSpec` library functions and configure Puppet and Bolt for
all tests in the `spec/` directory, add the following lines to the `spec_helper.rb`
file:

```ruby
# spec/spec_helper.rb

# Load the BoltSpec library
require 'bolt_spec/plans'

# Include the BoltSpec library functions
include BoltSpec::Plans

# Configure Puppet and Bolt for testing
BoltSpec::Plans.init

# Additional spec_helper configuration . . .
```

### Include BoltSpec in test files

To expose the `BoltSpec` helper functions and configure Puppet and Bolt for

> a single test file, add the following lines to the test file:

Author: There's a comment in BoltSpec that says running `BoltSpec::Plans.init` probably isn't safe to do in modules that also test manifest code. I _think_ that only applies if you're doing that in `spec_helper.rb`, since it would apply it to all tests.

We could add a line that suggests doing it from `spec_helper.rb` unless you're also testing manifest code?

> a single test file, add the following lines to the test file:

Reviewer: Cool - yeah I language around preferring spec_helper unless you're testing manifests makes sense

assertions on. For example, if you expect your plan to succeed and return a
message, you can write a test that makes those assertions.

Given the following plan which returns a message:

```puppet
plan whoami () {
  return 'Who are YOU?'
}
```

You can write a test that asserts that the plan will return a successful result
with the message `Who are YOU?`:

```ruby
it 'asks who you are' do
  result = run_plan('whoami', {})

  expect(result.ok?).to be(true)
  expect(result.value).to eq('Who are YOU?')
end
```

## Stubs and mocks

The `BoltSpec` library includes several functions used to mock and stub executor
functions in unit tests for plans. It's important to understand the difference
between stubs and mocks when writing your tests, as they serve different
purposes.

- _Stubs_ are used to allow the invocation of executor functions and set their
  return values.

- _Mocks_ are used to make assertions about executor function invocations and
  set their return values.

A helpful way to remember the difference between a stub and a mock, and when to
use one or the other, is that stubs _allow_ you to invoke executor functions,

> while mocks _expect_ executor functions to be invoked. Each stub and mock

Author: The sad thing is I read that line multiple times and knew it was off :|

to run on a specific list of targets with a specific set of parameters:

```ruby
it 'configures servers' do
  # Allow the 'my_project::configure' task to be run
  allow_task('my_project::configure')

  # Assert that the 'my_project::configure' task is run
  expect_task('my_project::configure').with_targets('servers').with_params({ 'confpath' => '/path/to/conf' })

  # Run the plan
  run_plan('my_project::configure', 'targets' => ['servers', 'databases'])
end
```

📖 **Related information**

- See the [BoltSpec reference](boltspec_reference.md) for a full list of
  modifiers.

### Matching stubs and mocks

When you run your tests and a plan invokes an executor function, `BoltSpec` will
match the function invocation to any stubs or mocks created for the test.
Executor function invocations are matched to any stub or mock that is as
specific or less specific than the function invocation, but not to any stub or
mock that is more specific than the function invocation. If the function
invocation matches multiple stubs or mocks, it will use the last stub or mock
that matched.

For example, the following plan invokes the `run_task` function to run the
`configure` task on a list of targets:

> And the following plan which runs the `configure` task on a list of targets:

Author: Lol, ya, it refers to the same plan. :P I was moving the example around and forgot to delete that extra line.

```puppet
plan configure (
  TargetSpec $targets
) {
  $result = run_task('configure', $targets)
  return $result
}
```

Given the following test which has three `expect_task` mocks:

```ruby
it 'runs the configure task' do
  expect_task('configure')
  expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])
  expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers']).with_params('autoupdate' => true)

  run_plan('configure', 'targets' => 'servers')
end
```

`BoltSpec` will match the `run_task` invocation to the following mocks:

```ruby
expect_task('configure')
expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])
```

`BoltSpec` does not match the `run_task` invocation to the third mock because it
uses the `with_params` modifier to add more specificity. Because `BoltSpec`
found multiple matching mocks, it will use the last one defined in the test:
`expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])`. The test will then fail,
as the first mock is not fulfilled, as the plan does not run the `configure`

> task a second time.

Author: All mocks need their assertions to be fulfilled for a test to pass since a mock is an assertion that something will happen. When `BoltSpec` uses a mock, it increments a counter on the mock to indicate how many times it has been met. Because `BoltSpec` only uses the last matching mock, only the last matching mock will have its counter incremented.

> task a second time.

Reviewer: Okay cool, I updated this edit and added a sentence above to clarify that.

    expect(result.ok?).to be(true)
    expect(result.value.first['stdout']).to match(/localhost/)
  end

  it 'runs the specified script on the targets and returns a value' do
    expect_script(script).with_targets(targets).always_return('stdout' => 'success')

    result = run_plan(plan, 'script' => script, 'targets' => targets)

    expect(result.ok?).to be(true)
    expect(result.value.first['stdout']).to match(/success/)
  end
end
```

### Testing a plan with sub-plans

The following example demonstrates testing a plan that runs sub-plans.

This plan accepts a single parameter: a list of targets to run on. First,
the plan runs a sub-plan to group targets depending on whether the
`puppet-agent` package is installed. Then, the plan runs the `patch`
task on any targets with the `puppet-agent` package installed and the
`puppet_agent::install` task on any targets without the `puppet-agent`
package installed.

Save the following plan to `patch/plans/init.pp`:

```puppet
plan patch (
  TargetSpec $targets
) {
  # Group targets by puppet-agent status
  $_targets = run_plan('patch::get_targets', 'targets' => $targets)

>   # Run the patching task on agentful targets

Author: 👍 Opted to "targets with agents". Hopefully that is okay in lieu of "nodes with agents" since Bolt terminology does not use "nodes"?

1. Create a [new
   module](https://puppet.com/docs/pdk/latest/pdk_creating_modules.html) using
   `pdk new module` or [convert an existing
   module](https://puppet.com/docs/pdk/latest/pdk_converting_modules.html) with
   `pdk convert`.

1. Ensure your module has `Gemfile`, `Rakefile`, and `spec/spec_helper.rb`
   files.

1. Install the `bundler` gem with Ruby:

    ```shell
    gem install bundler
    ```

1. Install the module's gem dependencies, which include Bolt and other testing
   tools:

    ```shell
    bundle install
    ```

## Directory and file structure

Save tests to the same module as the plans you are testing. By convention, tests
for a plan are saved to a file with the name `<PLAN NAME>_spec.rb` in the
module's `spec/plans` directory.

```shell
my_module/
├── Gemfile
├── metadata.json
├── plans/
│   └── my_plan.pp
├── Rakefile
└── spec/
    ├── plans/
    │   └── my_plan_spec.rb
    └── spec_helper.rb
```

## Include BoltSpec functions

To use the `BoltSpec` library functions, include them in either the
`spec_helper.rb` file or in the individual test files, and configure Puppet and
Bolt for the testing environment.

> > 🔩 **Tip**: Unless your module also includes tests for manifest code, add the
> > `BoltSpec` helpers and configure Puppet and Bolt in `spec_helper.rb`. This makes
> > the helpers available to all of your tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 🔩 **Tip**: Unless your module also includes tests for manifest code, add the
> `BoltSpec` helpers and configure Puppet and Bolt in `spec_helper.rb` instead
> of including them in the individual test files. This makes the helpers available to 
> all of your tests.
```

- Set the value returned by an executor function.

For example, you can use the `be_called_times` modifier to limit the number of
times you expect a task to be run in a plan. The following test sets an
assertion that the `facts` task is only called once:

```ruby
it 'does not run more than two tasks' do
  # Assert that the 'facts' task is run exactly once
  expect_task('facts').be_called_times(1)

  # Run the plan
  run_plan('my_project::my_plan', 'servers' => 'servers', 'databases' => 'databases')
end
```

This test would pass for the following plan, since the plan only runs the
`facts` task once:

```puppet
plan my_project::my_plan (
  TargetSpec $servers,
  TargetSpec $databases
) {
  $targets = $servers + $databases
  $results = run_task('facts', $targets)
  return $results
}
```

However, the test would fail for the following plan, since the plan runs the
`facts` task twice:

```puppet
plan my_project::my_plan (
  TargetSpec $servers,
  TargetSpec $databases
) {
  $server_results   = run_task('facts', $servers)
  $database_results = run_task('facts', $databases)
  $results          = ResultSet.new($server_results.results + $database_results.results)
  return $results
}
```

> Modifiers can also be chained, allowing you to add as much or as little

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can chain modifiers, allowing you to add as much or as little
```

specificity to a stub or mock as you want. For example, you can restrict a task
to run on a specific list of targets with a specific set of parameters:

```ruby
it 'configures servers' do
  # Assert that the 'my_project::configure' task is run
  expect_task('my_project::configure').with_targets('servers').with_params({ 'confpath' => '/path/to/conf' })

  # Run the plan
  run_plan('my_project::configure', 'targets' => ['servers', 'databases'])
end
```

📖  **Related information**

- See the [BoltSpec reference](boltspec_reference.md) for a full list of
  modifiers.

### Matching stubs and mocks

> When you run your tests and a plan invokes an executor function, `BoltSpec`
> matches the function invocation to any stubs or mocks created for the test.
> Executor function invocations are matched to any stub or mock that is as
> specific or less specific than the function invocation, but not to any stub or
> mock that is more specific than the function invocation. If the function
> invocation matches multiple stubs or mocks, it uses the last stub or mock that
> matched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run your tests and a plan invokes an executor function, `BoltSpec`
matches the function invocation to any stubs or mocks created for the test.
`BoltSpec` matches executor function invocations to any stub or mock that is as
specific or less specific than the function invocation, but not to any stub or
mock that is more specific than the function invocation. If the function
invocation matches multiple stubs or mocks, `BoltSpec` uses the last stub or mock 
that matched.

For a test to pass, `BoltSpec` must find a match for each stub or mock in the test. 
```
Adding that last bit because I think it's what I got tripped up on later.

Author: 👍 Added. Modified it to only say 'each mock', since stubs don't make assertions and thus don't need to be matched for a test to pass.

    result = run_plan('patch', 'targets' => 'all')

    expect(result.value['agents'].map(&:name)).to eq(['agent-target'])
    expect(result.value['agentless'].map(&:name)).to eq(['agentless-target'])
  end

  it 'returns an empty array if a group has no targets' do
    result = run_plan('patch', 'targets' => 'empty')

    expect(result.value['agents']).to eq([])
    expect(result.value['agentless']).to eq([])
  end

  it 'runs the patch task on targets with agents' do
    expect_task('patch').with_targets(['agent-target'])

    run_plan('patch', 'targets' => 'all')
  end

  it 'does not run the patch task if there are no targets with agents' do
    expect_task('patch').not_be_called

    run_plan('patch', 'targets' => 'agentless')
  end

  it 'runs the puppet_agent::install task on agentless targets' do
    expect_task('puppet_agent::install').with_targets(['agentless-target'])

    run_plan('patch', 'targets' => 'all')
  end

  it 'does not run the puppet_agent::install task if there are no agentless targets' do
    expect_task('puppet_agent::install').not_be_called

    run_plan('patch', 'targets' => 'agents')
  end
end
```

Run the tests:

```shell
bundle exec rake spec

> ```

Reviewer: Could you add a related info section here? The backticks are throwing my suggestion off:

```
📖 Related information

- For more information on the available mocks and stubs, see the [BoltSpec reference](boltspec_reference.md).
```

# Testing plans

Bolt ships with a library of helpers, named `BoltSpec`, intended to be used for
writing unit tests for plans with the `RSpec` testing tool. Before writing unit
tests for plans, get familiar with [RSpec](https://rspec.info/).

`BoltSpec` requires other Puppet testing tools like `rspec-puppet`. The [Puppet
Development Kit (PDK)](https://puppet.com/docs/pdk/latest/pdk.html) provides
commands for installing and configuring these tools in new or existing modules.
If your plan is part of a Bolt project, you can either move the plan to a module

> created with PDK or convert your project to a module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
created with PDK or [manually setup rspec-puppet](https://rspec-puppet.com/documentation/setup/) in your Bolt project.
```

adding them to `spec_helper.rb`. You should do this if your module includes
tests for manifest code, as configuring Puppet and Bolt in `spec_helper.rb` might
cause your manifest tests to fail.

To include `BoltSpec` helpers and configure Puppet and Bolt for a single test
file, add the following lines to the file:

```ruby
# spec/plans/<PLAN NAME>_spec.rb

# Load the spec_helper and BoltSpec library
require 'spec_helper'
require 'bolt_spec/plans'

describe '<PLAN NAME>' do
  # Include the BoltSpec library functions
  include BoltSpec::Plans

  # Configure Puppet and Bolt before running any tests
  before(:all) do
    BoltSpec::Plans.init
  end

  # Tests . . .
end
```

## Running tests

To run tests for your modules, including tests that you write for plans, run the
following command:

```shell
bundle exec rake spec
```

This command runs a rake task that is defined in the `Rakefile` created by PDK,
and should execute successfully before you have written any tests. After you've
written tests and run the rake task, the task prints a list of your tests to the
console together with each test's pass or fail status.

> 

Reviewer 2: To run an individual spec test, run:
```
bundle exec rake spec_prep
bundle exec rspec spec/plans/myplan_spec.rb
...
bundle exec rake spec_clean
```

function in either your `spec_helper.rb` file or in the individual test files.
This function should return a hash of configuration data that matches the
structure expected in a [configuration file](bolt_project_reference.md).

For example, the following `config_data` function loads configuration data from
a test fixture:

```ruby
def config_data
  YAML.load_file(File.expand_path('../fixtures/config.yaml'))
end
```

### Overriding inventory

To override the default inventory used by `BoltSpec`, write an `inventory_data`
function. This function should return a hash of inventory data that matches the
structure expected in an [inventory file](inventory_files.md).

For example, the following `inventory_data` function loads inventory data from a
test fixture:

```ruby
def inventory_data
  YAML.load_file(File.expand_path('../fixtures/inventory.yaml'))
end
```

### Overriding the modulepath

To override the default modulepath used by `BoltSpec`, write a `modulepath`
function. This function should return an array of strings, where each string is
the path to a directory that includes modules.

```ruby
def modulepath
  [File.expand_path('../fixtures/modules')]
end
```

> ## Running plans

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Acceptance Testing for Bolt Plans
```
Since this actually runs the plan with the provided parameters, I think it's safe to call this acceptance testing.

The `BoltSpec` library includes the `run_plan` function which is used to run a
plan. It has two required parameters: the name of the plan and a set of
parameters to pass to the plan.

To run a plan in a test, call the `run_plan` function:

```ruby
it 'calls the plan' do
  run_plan('configure', { 'cleanup' => false })
end
```

The `run_plan` function returns a [`PlanResult`
object](bolt_types_reference.md#planresult), which you can examine and make
assertions on. For example, if you expect your plan to succeed and return a
message, you can write a test that makes those assertions.

Given the following plan which returns a message:

```puppet
plan whoami () {
  return 'Who are YOU?'
}
```

You can write a test that asserts that the plan will return a successful result
with the message `Who are YOU?`:

```ruby
it 'asks who you are' do
  result = run_plan('whoami', {})

  expect(result.ok?).to be(true)
  expect(result.value).to eq('Who are YOU?')
end
```

> ## Stubs and mocks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Unit testing for Bolt plans
```

> The `BoltSpec` library includes several functions used to mock and stub executor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `BoltSpec` library includes several functions used to mock and stub plan
```

Reviewer 2: While these go through the executor I think users are used to interacting with them through plans.

invocation matches multiple stubs or mocks, `BoltSpec` uses the last stub or
mock that matched.

For a test to pass, `BoltSpec` must find a match for each mock in the test. 

For example, the following plan invokes the `run_task` function to run the
`configure` task on a list of targets:

```puppet
plan configure (
  TargetSpec $targets
) {
  $result = run_task('configure', $targets)
  return $result
}
```

Given the following test which has three `expect_task` mocks:

```ruby
it 'runs the configure task' do
  expect_task('configure')
  expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])
  expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers']).with_params('autoupdate' => true)

  run_plan('configure', 'targets' => 'servers')
end
```

`BoltSpec` matches the `run_task` invocation to the following mocks:

```ruby
expect_task('configure')
expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])
```

`BoltSpec` does not match the `run_task` invocation to the third mock because it
uses the `with_params` modifier to add more specificity. Because `BoltSpec`
found multiple matching mocks, it will use the last one defined in the test:

> `expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])`. The test will then fail,
> as the first mock is not fulfilled, as the plan does not run the `configure`
> task a second time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])`. Because plan does
not run the `configure` task a second time, the first mock is not fulfilled, 
and the test fails.
```
Just removing the future + passive

  expect_task('configure').with_params('autoupdate' => true)
  expect_task('configure')

  run_plan('configure_twice', 'targets' => 'servers')
end
```

When the test is run, `BoltSpec` matches the first `run_task` invocation to both
mocks, but uses the last matching mock: `expect_task('configure')`. When the
plan invokes `run_task` a second time, the invocation only matches one mock:
`expect_task('configure')`. The test fails because the
`expect_task('configure')` mock is only expected to be matched once and the test
never used the first `expect_task('configure').with_params('autoupdate' =>
true)` mock.

Writing the test with the mocks in the opposite order results in the test
passing:

```ruby
it 'configures servers and databases' do
  expect_task('configure')
  expect_task('configure').with_params('autoupdate' => true)

  run_plan('configure_twice', 'targets' => 'servers')
end
```

## Execution modes

Plans often execute sub-plans with the `run_plan` function to build complex
workflows. When testing these plans, it might be helpful to execute any
sub-plans as well without needing to stub or mock the plan. To support this,
`BoltSpec` offers two different execution modes:

> - `execute_any_plan`

Reviewer 2: Ok, I *swear* I searched both this page and my checkout before commenting above :P Grep has failed me.

more specific than the function invocation. If the function invocation matches
multiple stubs or mocks, `BoltSpec` uses the last stub or mock that matched.

For a test to pass, `BoltSpec` must find a match for each mock in the test. 

For example, the following plan invokes the `run_task` function to run the
`configure` task on a list of targets:

```puppet
plan configure (
  TargetSpec $targets
) {
  $result = run_task('configure', $targets)
  return $result
}
```

Given the following test which has three `expect_task` mocks:

```ruby
it 'runs the configure task' do
  expect_task('configure')
  expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])
  expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers']).with_params('autoupdate' => true)

  run_plan('configure', 'targets' => 'servers')
end
```

`BoltSpec` matches the `run_task` invocation to the following mocks:

```ruby
expect_task('configure')
expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])
```

`BoltSpec` does not match the `run_task` invocation to the third mock because it
uses the `with_params` modifier to add more specificity. Because `BoltSpec`
found multiple matching mocks, it will use the last one defined in the test:

> `expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])`. The test will then fail,

Author: That mock isn't matched, since it's more specific than the function invocation in the plan.

Cleared up the language in this paragraph since I think it wasn't as clear as it could be.

> `expect_task('configure').with_targets(['servers'])`. The test will then fail,

Reviewer 2: Ack apologies, I meant to delete the comment!

  Optional[String] $command = undef,
  Optional[String] $script  = undef
) {
  if type($command) == Undef and type($script) == Undef {
    fail_plan('Must specify either command or script.')
  }
  elsif $command and $script {
    fail_plan('Cannot specify both command and script.')
  }
  elsif $command {
    return run_command($command, $targets)
  }
  else {
    return run_script($script, $targets)
  }
}
```

As a plan author, you might want to ensure each code path executes as you
expect. To do so, you can write a few tests that assert the following behavior:

- The plan fails with a helpful message if neither `command` nor `script` are
  specified.

- The plan fails with a helpful message if both `command` and `script` are
  specified.

- The plan succeeds and returns a value if `command` is specified.

- The plan succeeds and returns a value if `script` is specified.

Save the following tests to `command_or_script/spec/plans/init_spec.rb`:

```ruby
# frozen_string_literal: true

require 'spec_helper'
require 'bolt_spec/plans'

describe 'test' do
  include BoltSpec::Plans

  # Configure Puppet and Bolt before running any tests
  before(:all) do
    BoltSpec::Plans.init
  end

> 

Author: This shouldn't be required, since that's the default modulepath provided by rspec-puppet.

> 

Reviewer 2: Oh, hm...it didn't work for me locally without adding this.

> 

Author: Are you modifying the modulepath elsewhere, like in your spec_helper? I'm working in a module made with `pdk new module` and there's no need to configure the modulepath to get the tests to run successfully.

`patch::get_targets` plan is run in each test. For tests where it is not
necessary to make assertions about the sub-plan, you can stub the sub-plan and
have it return a set value.

Save the following tests to `patch/spec/plans/init_spec.rb`:

```ruby
# frozen_string_literal: true

require 'spec_helper'
require 'bolt_spec/plans'

describe 'patch' do
  include BoltSpec::Plans

  # Inventory that is loaded by Bolt with targets that can be referenced
  # by name in stubs and mocks
  def inventory_data
    {
      'groups' => [
        {
          'name'    => 'agents',
          'targets' => ['agent-target']
        },
        {
          'name'    => 'agentless',
          'targets' => ['agentless-target']
        },
        {
          'name'    => 'empty',
          'targets' => []
        }
      ]
    }
  end

  # Configure Puppet and Bolt before running any tests
  before(:all) do
    BoltSpec::Plans.init
  end

  # Set the return value of puppet_agent::version for each target
  # Stub the patch and puppet_agent::install tasks
  before(:each) do
    allow_task('puppet_agent::version').return_for_targets({

>       'agent-target'     => { 'version' => '7.0.0' },

Reviewer 2: This can only stub `stdout` or `stderr` :thinking: it's a bit of a pickle since we still want the task to be runnable on its own too...you could maybe try `puppet --version` and filter on if that fails or not?

Reviewer 2: Hm, they're failing for me locally and if I'm reading this right it applies to `return_for_targets` as well https://github.com/puppetlabs/bolt/blob/main/lib/bolt_spec/plans.rb#L106

Author: That says for command and script, while this is for the `allow_task` stub. Further down in that comment we also have several examples of task stubs/mocks returning values without `stdout` or `stderr` keys.

I'm not sure why these are failing for you since I'm able to run them successfully locally...

```puppet
plan patch (
  TargetSpec $targets
) {
  # Group targets by puppet-agent status
  $_targets = run_plan('patch::get_targets', 'targets' => $targets)

  # Run the patching task on targets with agents
  unless $_targets['agents'].empty() {
    run_task('patch', $_targets['agents'])
  }

  # Install the puppet-agent package on agentless targets
  unless $_targets['agentless'].empty() {
    run_task('puppet_agent::install', $_targets['agentless'])
  }

  # Return the targets grouped by puppet-agent status
  return $_targets
}
```

The plan executes the following sub-plan. The sub-plan runs the
`puppet_agent::version` task on each target and groups targets depending on
whether the target has the `puppet-agent` package installed. It returns a hash
that indicates which targets have the `puppet-agent` packaged installed and
which do not.

Save the following plan to `patch/plans/get_targets.pp`:

```puppet
plan patch::get_targets (
  TargetSpec $targets
) {
  # Get puppet-agent version on all targets
  $_targets = get_targets($targets) 
  $results  = run_task('puppet_agent::version', $_targets)

  # Group targets by puppet-agent status

>   $agents    = $results.filter_set |$result| { $result['version'] != undef }.targets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  $agents    = $results.filter_set |$result| { $result['stdout']['version'] != undef }.targets
```
